let's turn to the war in Gaza and Qatar
says that the First Consignment of Aid
under a deal which was broken between
Israel and Hamas has entered the
territory planes carrying 61 tons of Aid
had flown into Egypt it's understood
that has now been delivered to Gaza
although it's not known if it's been
distributed just yet Hamas has said that
for every box of medicine intended for
Israeli hostages who were taken during
the attack on the 7th of October a th
boxes would be reserved for residents of
Gaza meanwhile the fighting continues
officials from the Hamas run Health
Ministry in Gaza say at least 16 people
were killed and many more injured in a
missile strike on a building in Rafa in
southern Gaza they claim several
children were among the
casualties and in the last hour a feed
from cameras in Rafa caught this
explosion details about what exactly
happened have not yet emerged Israel
which along with several Western
countries considers Hamas to be a
terrorist organization has previously
said it provides warnings to civilians
of potential action and only targets
militants well earlier I spoke to James
denlo head of conflict and humanitarian
policy and advocacy at save the
children well I think the first thing to
say is that uh getting Aid into a
population that needs it shouldn't
require high level diplomacy
age should be uh uninterrupted and
unimpaired by all parties to any
conflict so while it obviously is uh of
good news to have medicine for all of
those who need it it's sad that it takes
so much political capital for this to
happen uh children who need access to
Food Water medicine shouldn't have to
rely on uh the leaders of regional
countries uh coming to make agreements
but short windows for that to get
through and of course the scale of
needing Gaza for the over 1 million
children there is absolutely vast and
while again these medicines and these
key uh drugs Etc are are vital uh we
shouldn't forget that we are dealing
with uh a situation in which every
single child in Gaza is hungry but many
children in Gaza numbering in the tens
of thousands are are are heading towards
uh famine conditions and of course the
prospect of the death toll uh going up
very significantly in a very short pace
of time yeah that warning has been given
over the last
few weeks or so about the the situation
of famine I mean just take us through
the the level of um of need in Gaza at
the
moment well the level of need is is
absolute across every section and sector
of the humanitarian response yesterday
saw 225 a trucks uh go into Gaza
compared to the pre-conflict average of
500 but we shouldn't get ourselves uh
focusing entirely on numbers of trucks
because of course uh the population
across Gaza has different needs and and
parts of the North in particular are
finding it very hard to get access to
Aid and the numbers of convoys that are
given permission to get to that
population is extremely low indeed and
today of course we've seen uh the main
access road from north to south cut off
we've also seen uh issues over the last
week or so in terms of a communication
blackout and inability uh to communicate
uh whether that's Aid operators or the
population trying to work out where is
relatively safety relatively safe
because of course there's no single safe
place in Gaza so um when you're talking
about that mismatch between the the
actual need for Aid and the amount that
we're able to get in and distribute
effectively Mass suffering happens in
between and of course I I would really
sum up our response at the moment as not
reversing or addressing the humanitarian
crisis but simply slowing its descent
into greater levels of hell